The very very last thing we need
to do now with our design is to
set up our desktop break point.
So to remind you what these look like
we've got our mobile is under control.
It's over on the right hand side.
We've got our tablet under
control there in the middle.
Now we need to worry about our layout
over there on the left hand side.
And as you see here, we have a nav bar,
we have our album cover,
our audio, our reviews.
Then over on the right column
we have our advertising boxes,
our diamonds, and
all of the other small elements, and
then the footer has wound up
being over on the left again.
So when we look at a type of
layout kind of like that,
we need to start thinking about how do we
group together these elements such that
we can lay everything out for desktop.
So let's put that together now.
If we take a look at our HTML at a very,
very high level.
We have a div with a class of wrapper
around everything, as you know.
Then we have our header, our main grid.
Remember, main grid contains our cover and
our track list are contained
inside of that main grid.
And the cover includes the cover and
the audio player.
We have our side of reviews.
That's another element that we have there.
We have our album Magenta Lime,
that's the box with the guys in it.
We have our diamond box, and
then I've called this thing
just CTA as in call to action.
That's all the extra little stuff down
there at the bottom, the buttons,
the lightning bolts, the and so forth.
All the other little small stuff.
And then we have the footer.
So let's put in some groupings here.
It's not going to break any of our
layouts that have come before, but
let's put in some groupings now, that will
help us with our desktop based layout.
So I am going to group together
these elements with just an old div,
because we're not adding
anything semantically here.
We just need something to hold a class.
So I'm going to say here
at the very first one,
we're gonna say div with a class of left,
because it's gonna go on the left.
And inside this div I am
going to put in a header,
a main grid and my reviews,
because that will
show up on the left hand
side of our layout/div.
Then I'm going to put in another
div with a class of right.
And this div is going to include
our boxes, our diamond images, and
all of the other small elements.
And then we have the footer by itself.
So basically we have a wrapper, it has
three children, has div with a class of
left, div with a class of right and
footer, that's all we've got.
So now we have our div with a class of
wrapper all the way around the outside.
We have a div with a class of left, a div
with a class of right, and our footer.
So now all we have to do is write
our grid-based layout for this.
I'm just gonna add this to the bottom of
the page because this is a general page
layout that is going to apply everywhere.
It's not really associated with any
of our layers such as they are.
So I'm just gonna put this down
here in our last media query,
which is a desktop based media query here.
So the first thing that I'm going to do is
turn this into a minimum width of 1440,
which is a number that came
to us from the designer.
So we have our wrapper
set to a maximum width of
1440 as well, and
now we can say display grid,
and we can say our grid template columns,
I kinda want a 60 40 split
in terms of the sizing here.
In other words,
not two evenly sized columns.
I want the left side to be slightly
larger than the right hand side,
so I'm going to use 6fr, 4fr, to do that.
Then we can set up a bunch of
other styles here for this.
Remember that we had some classes earlier
called Hide Tablet and Hide Mobile.
These are up in the reviews, and
I think we've probably already
declared these in the reviews.
I'm gonna re-declare them here again so
that we get a very clear picture as to
what's going on at our desktop dimension.
So we'll say display block,
we want those little lightning bolts
in between the reviews to show up.
Then we can say left.
We're gonna have to give this a very
specific place for it to appear,
because when we make
this screen big enough.
And mine will not go big enough.
We wanna be sure to have all
of our elements show up here.
And what's gonna happen right now is our
footer will wind up showing up all the way
down here at the bottom.
And we actually want our footer to
show up more in this area here,
with this right column going
long down here on the side.
So, I'm going to call out my grid column.
So 1/2 and my grid-row, so 1/2.
Because we want everything
that's there on the left,
we want it to take up our first column,
and we want it to take up our first row.
Likewise for our right side,
we want that to take up
our grid-column of 2/3.
So we want that to take
up the next column and
grid-row, we want that to take up 1/3.
So we want it to occupy the row
that will have all of left and
it will occupy the row that
will contain our footer.
In addition, because that last button
that we have over there in that right
column doesn't necessarily have
any margin associated with it,
let's give it a little
bit of margin there.
Margin-bottom of 5rem, that way it doesn't
crash into the very bottom of the browser.
And then finally, we can specify
where we want our footer to appear.
Footer, and
we're gonna say our grid column is 1/2,
so it's over on the left column.
We want our grid row to be 2/3, so
it'll appear underneath
of that left column.
We don't want it to overlap it.
We want it to appear underneath.
And then we can control exactly where
we want it to appear via margin.
So let's just check how this looks so far.
So as we scroll down here, here's
the footer down here at the bottom, and
it is showing up in the second row but
it still kinda got a large gap here.
So we can convince it to display a little
bit higher using negative margin.
And I'll do that by adding
a margin on the top of -20 rem,
and that was derived just by trial and
error.
So now, when we take a look at this again,
That will pull the footer up a little
bit closer to the reviews and
give us a little bit of that extra
space over here on the side for
the additional items that
are in the right hand column.
Now the other problem that we
have here is our navigation bar.
You'll see that our navigation bar is
crashing into our right column here.
And so we might need to tweak this a
little bit to make this work a little bit
better.
If we go back into our nav styling here,
we have a style for top,
And it has no maximum
width associated with it.
So let's give it a max
width of 600 pixels.
And now when we go back to
the way this page looks
Now our navigation is aligned
a little bit better over our cover.
It doesn't smash into
the side here on desktop.
And it continues to look okay here
on tablet although now it's up
a little bit here on the tablet, so
we can add some more styling on that.
So here in the top UL, we can give this
a gap of one rem instead of two rem.
And for the margin, let's change
that to a margin of 0.5 rem 0 0 0.
And that will push that navigation
bar into better alignment here so
that it's not off anymore.
So now as we make our page bigger,
the desktop layout looks great.
As we make our page smaller,
we still have our working track list.
The navigation looks good.
Until we get to our mobile dimensions,
there's our button.
Get a little further and
the name disappears.
So there we are.
We are all done with our
more challenging design.